CSCB58 Project Report: Winter 2019

Team Member A
-------------
First Name: JiaZheng 
Last Name:Li
Student Number: 1003265619
UofT E-mail Address: markjz.li@mail.utoronto.ca


Team Member B
-------------
First Name: Junxing
Last Name:Xu
Student Number:1004019028
UofT E-mail Address:junxing.xu@mail.utoronto.ca

Team Member C 
-------------
First Name: Tianfang
Last Name:Lan
Student Number:1002687210
UofT E-mail Address:tianfang.lan@gmail.utoronto.ca



Project Plan
--------

Project Title: Tetris


Provide a one paragraph description of your project: 
The project aimed to create the classic tile matching puzzle game. The player's objective is to score as many points as possible by manipulating tiles to clear horizontal rows
The game is responsible for randomly generating tetris tiles and slowly dropping them. During this time, players are allowed to use a keyboard to direct tile movements and
rotations with intent of clearing lines to score points. Game will terminate when tiles cannot be generated on to the board anymore due to board being overflowed with tiles.


What is your plan for the first week?
The plan for first week was to set up all the possible blocks that are needed in the tetris; this includes the standard 6 game tiles in the original tetris
game as well as its rotation shapes. 

What is your plan for the second week?
The plan for second week was to set up the block movements according to keyboard inputs. This includes proper movements/rotations
given restrictions of tiles that are already on the board.

What is your plan for the third week?
The plan for third week was to set up the score system, reset system, and special effects for clearing tiles.

What is your backup plan if things don’t work out as planned?
The back up plan was to create the game "snake" if things did not work out as planned


Weekly Reports
--------------
<In this space, provide a report each week of what worked and what didn't, and what (if any) changes were made to your proposal)>

Week 1:
	We successfully added and tested all game blocks needed in the game by using FSMs to generate them 

Week 2:
	While we were trying to create logic for block movements, we found it very difficult to debug due to the design of block
	creation from week 1. Code sanity was not maintained since we had multiple FSMs (at least 15) that were needed to create
	blocks. As a result, we changed our approach to the game design. Instead of focusing on where each game tile should be
	moved and drawn, we decided to focus on how to draw the board instead. To do this, we used a 2d matrix that represented
        the board. 

Week 3:
	-We successfully initialized and tested the boarder for the game
	-We unsuccessfully set up a proper block movement system. We underestimated the complexity of calculating the board output
	because of the numerous variables that needs to be accounted for (E.g. Calculate proper/legal tile movements given restrictions
	of the board, and the type of block that is being maneuvered). 
	-We found a lack of time to use our backup plan(snake game). As a result, we decided to use what we already have to create a
	a dodging game. This game is similar to Tetris with random shapes dropping. However, this time around, the user's objective
	is to dodge the incoming shapes that are dropping.
	-While testing our new version of the game, we couldn't display any image on VGA anymore. We were unsuccessful in debugging
	the problem since we ran out of time. 
	-The logic for scores and resetting the game were also implemented. However, they couldn't be tested as they were blocked
	from the previous issue.



References
----------
We did not use any external sources


Repo & Video
------------
Repo: https://github.com/NielXu/cscb58-final
Vid: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hz2sbOQNdPs

